		    THE ONLINE GREEK NEW TESTAMENT
		     DECLENSION CODES FOR NOUNS,
	 ADJECTIVES, PREPOSITIONS, CONJUNCTIONS AND PARTICLES

		 Derived, compared and corrected from
		Davidson's "Analytical Greek Lexicon,"
		     with comparison made against
	    Perschbacher's "New Analytical Greek Lexicon"

	    Abbreviated in a form similar to that found in
	      Friberg's "Analytical Greek New Testament"

		    Maurice A. Robinson 2 May 2000

The codes which follow reflect an original abridgment and correction
of the parsing data presented in Samuel Davidson, "The Analytical
Greek Lexicon" (London: Samuel Bagster and Sons, 1859), which volume
is now in the public domain.

Comparison also has been made against the parsing information cited in
Wesley J. Perschbacher, "The New Analytical Greek Lexicon" (Peabody,
MA: Hendrickson, 1990). The Perschbacher volume is itself an updated
and corrected revision of the original Davidson "Analytical Greek
Lexicon".

Note that more than 500 parsing or other errors which occurred in
Davidson and remained uncorrected in the Perschbacher revision have
been corrected within the present Online Bible parsing data.

The abbreviation system herein utilized, although developed
independently, retains features similar but not identical to those
found in Timothy and Barbara Friberg "The Analytical Greek New
Testament" (Grand Rapids: Baker, 1981), and can be used with ease by
anyone familiar with either the Davidson, Perschbacher, or Friberg
volumes.

Many non-verbal New Testament Greek forms (e.g., nouns, adjectives,
conjunctions, prepositions, and particles) can be declined in more
than one manner. Following the example of Davidson and Perschbacher,
the declensions given reflect only those forms which actually occur in
the Greek New Testament.

The present parsing list makes no claim to be error-free; should the
user discover any errors in either the parsing/declension codes or
Strong's numbers while using the Online Bible, please inform the
present editor c/o SEBTS, P. O. Box 1889, Wake Forest, NC 27588.

UNDECLINED FORMS:

    ADV = ADVerb or adverb and particle combined
    CONJ = CONJunction or conjunctive particle
    COND = CONDitional particle or conjunction
    PRT = PaRTicle, disjunctive particle
    PREP = PREPosition
    INJ = INterJection
    ARAM = ARAMaic transliterated word (indeclinable)
    HEB = HEBrew transliterated word (indeclinable)
    N-PRI = Indeclinable PRoper Noun
    A-NUI = Indeclinable NUmeral (Adjective)
    N-LI = Indeclinable Letter (Noun)
    N-OI = Indeclinable Noun of Other type

DECLINED FORMS:

    All follow the order: prefix-case-number-gender-(suffix)

    Prefixes:

    N- = Noun
    A- = Adjective
    R- = Relative pronoun
    C- = reCiprocal pronoun
    D- = Demonstrative pronoun
    T- = definite article
    K- = correlative pronoun
    I- = Interrogative pronoun
    X- = indefinite pronoun
    Q- = correlative or interrogative pronoun
    F- = reFlexive pronoun (person 1,2,3 added)
    S- = poSsessive pronoun (person 1,2,3 added)
    P- = Personal pronoun (person 1,2,3 added) > (Note: 1st and 2nd personal pronouns have no gender)

Cases (5-case system only):

    -N = Nominative
    -V = Vocative
    -G = Genitive
    -D = Dative
    -A = Accusative

 

Number:

    S = Singular
    P = Plural

 

Gender:

    M = Masculine
    F = Feminine
    N = Neuter

Suffixes:

    -S = Superlative (used only with adjectives and some adverbs)
    -C = Comparative (used only with adjectives and some adverbs)
    -ABB = ABBreviated form (used only with various numerals)
    -I = Interrogative
    -N = Negative (used only with particles as PRT-N)
    -C = Contracted form, or two words merged by crasis
    -ATT = ATTic Greek form
    -P = Particle attached (with relative pronoun)

SEARCHING FOR WORDS USING THE PARSING CODES:

All parsing and declension code information for the Online Bible Greek
text is supplied in CAPITAL letters whereas the Greek text appears
entirely in lower case letters. The Online Bible search routine allows
case-sensitive searching, so that one can easily use lower case to
search for Greek words only (with or without wildcards), and upper
case to search by parsing or declension only (also with or without
wildcards). Using Boolean search capabilities, one can combine lower
and upper case search requests to select specific Greek forms in
association with specified parsing or declension information.

Note that in order to search across hyphenated sections of the
declension parsing (e.g., for N-GSM), one must make a "phrase >
search" request, since the Online Bible disregards hyphens in its >
search routine. Thus, to search for N-GSM, the request must be
specific for either the phrase "N GSM" or "N-GSM".

Note that, even though one could search for all the forms of "logov"
by "log*", or for all Genitive plural nouns by typing "GPM | GPM |
GPN", in order to link a word directly with its own particular
declension, a fully inclusive PHRASE SEARCH must be requested which
includes the preliminary part-of-speech identifier (N-, A-, or V-)
when appropriate. E.g., to search for all genitive plural forms of
"logov", one must enter a phrase search request for either "log* N-GPM
| log* N-GPF | log* N-GPN" or "log* N-GP*"

Note that the Strong's numbers may also be judiciously utilized when
making search requests to reduce the amount of time and space needed
to otherwise frame such a request. E.g., one equally could do a phrase
search for all genitive plural forms of "logov" by "3056 & N-GPM |
N-GPF | N-GPN" or "3056 & N-GP*".

To search for phrases based solely on grammatical analysis (e.g., for
all prepositional phrases followed by an articular neuter genitive
noun), one must use the wildcard (*) symbol before each requested
parsing in a phrase search request (e.g., "* PREP * > T-GSN * N-GSN").

STRONG'S NUMBERS: For access to the lexical definitions of the root
form of each Greek word, the appropriate Strong's concordance number
has been added immediately following each Greek word. The definition
of that word can then be ascertained by following the normal Online
Bible F4 key or definition function as found in English-language based
texts.

The user should be cautioned, however, that the Strong's numbers
utilized for the Greek New Testament are NOT always identical with
those used in coding the English version text. The reason for this
discrepancy is simple: James Strong was attempting to help out the lay
reader of the Authorized Version in assigning numbers to each unique
word root form. For some reason, he then decided that the user might
be additionally aided if certain words (e.g., the verb "to be", or
comparative and superlative forms of adjectives and adverbs) were
further subdivided into uniquely-numbered forms; or, conversely, if
frequent expressions comprising more than one word (e.g. "ou mh") were
subsumed under > a single number, rather than giving the usual
separate numbers to such forms.

Thus, the Strong's apparatus -- well-suited as it may be for use of
the concordance he produced, as well as to aid the English reader who
does not know Greek -- is quite confusing and detrimental to the
student who might seek to use the same numbers for understanding the
root forms of the Greek New Testament.

In order to eliminate the various problems which would otherwise arise
from an incautious use of Strong's numbers as originally provided for
the English Bible, the present Greek edition of the Online Bible has
reduced the Strong's numbers considerably so as to guide the user
directly to the root form of most Greek words,without adding in the
extra step of having further to enquire via the lexicon as to the
component or root forms of such words.

This revision of the Strong's numbers for the Greek text of the New
Testament is not yet complete. Future editions of the Online Bible
Greek text will eventually bring all Strong's numbers into conformity
with the principle of providing only the base root form for all Greek
New Testament words. The user's patience is requested during this
period of development.

ADDITIONAL NOTES:

Declined proper nouns are not specifically identified as such; only
indeclinable forms are so identified.

It is ASSUMED that all Strong's numbers are correct; these have not
all been verified, except in a few cases where errors were corrected
during the process.

Reflexive pronouns have the Person (1,2,3) attached, e.g. F-3DSF See
"auth" in Perschbacher for further examples.

"rmd" is the abbreviated numeral for 144,000. This term has no >
Strong's number. It therefore has been assigned three Strong's
numbers, reflecting the individual Greek words which make up its >
component parts.

Top of Page

===========================

		    THE ONLINE GREEK NEW TESTAMENT
		 PARSING CODES FOR VERB-RELATED FORMS

		 Derived, compared and corrected from
		Davidson's "Analytical Greek Lexicon,"
		     with comparison made against
	    Perschbacher's "New Analytical Greek Lexicon"

	    Abbreviated in a form similar to that found in
	      Friberg's "Analytical Greek New Testament"
				   
		    Maurice A. Robinson 2 May 2000

The codes which follow reflect an original abridgment and correction
of the parsing data presented in Samuel Davidson, "The Analytical
Greek Lexicon" (London: Samuel Bagster and Sons, 1859), which volume
is now in the public domain.

Comparison also has been made against the parsing information cited in
Wesley J. Perschbacher, "The New Analytical Greek Lexicon" (Peabody,
MA: Hendrickson, 1990). The Perschbacher volume is itself an updated
and corrected revision of the original Davidson "Analytical Greek
Lexicon".

Note that more than 500 parsing or other errors which occurred in
Davidson and remained uncorrected in the Perschbacher revision have
been corrected within the present Online Bible parsing data.

The abbreviation system herein utilized, although developed
independently, retains features similar but not identical to those
found in Timothy and Barbara Friberg "The Analytical Greek New
Testament" (Grand Rapids: Baker, 1981), and can be used with ease by
anyone familiar with either the Davidson, Perschbacher, or Friberg
volumes.

Many non-verbal New Testament Greek forms (e.g., nouns, adjectives,
conjunctions, prepositions, and particles) can be declined in more
than one manner. Following the example of Davidson and Perschbacher,
the declensions given reflect only those forms which actually occur in
the Greek New Testament.

The present verbal codes exhaustively cover every possible verb
parsing situation cited by Perschbacher, and reflect the totality of
forms used in the Online Bible Greek module for verb parsings.

The present parsing list makes no claim to be error-free; should the
user discover any errors in either the parsing/declension codes or
Strong's numbers while using the Online Bible, please inform the
present editor c/o SEBTS, P. O. Box 1889, Wake Forest, NC 27588.

All Greek verbs are listed in one of three various forms:

1) V-tense-voice-mood
2) V-tense-voice-mood-person-number
3) V-tense-voice-mood-case-number-gender

The abbreviations which pertain to each of these categories are the following:

Tense:

P = Present
I = Imperfect
F = Future
Second Future = 2F
A = Aorist
Second Aorist = 2A
R = peRfect
Second peRfect = 2R
L = pLuperfect
Second pLuperfect = 2L
X = no tense stated (adverbial imperative)

Voice:

A = Active
M = Middle
P = Passive
E = Either middle or passive
D = middle Deponent
O = passive depOnent
N = middle or passive depoNent
Q = impersonal active
X = no voice stated

Mood:

I = Indicative
S = Subjunctive
O = Optative
M = iMperative
N = iNfinitive
P = Participle
R = impeRative-sense participle

Extra:

-M = Middle significance
-C = Contracted form
-T = Transitive
-A = Aeolic
-ATT = Attic
-AP = Apocopated form
-IRR = Irregular or Impure form

Person: 1, 2, 3 = First, Second, Third person

Number: S, P = Singular, Plural

Gender: M, F, N = Masculine, Feminine, Neuter

Case:

N = Nominative (5-case system only!)
G = Genitive
D = Dative
A = Accusative
V = Vocative

SEARCHING FOR WORDS USING THE PARSING CODES:

All parsing and declension code information for the Online Bible Greek
text is supplied in CAPITAL letters whereas the Greek text appears
entirely in lower case letters. The Online Bible search routine allows
case-sensitive searching, so that one can easily use lower case to
search for Greek words only (with or without > wildcards), and upper
case to search by parsing or declension only (also with or without
wildcards). Using Boolean search capabilities, one can combine lower
and upper case search requests to select specific Greek forms in
association with specified parsing or declension information.

Note that in order to search across hyphenated sections of the parsing
(e.g., for V-PAI-3S), one must make a "phrase search" request, since
the Online Bible disregards hyphens in its search routine. Thus, to
search for V-PAI-3S, the request must be specific for either the
phrase "V PAI 3S" or "V-PAI-3S".

Note that, even though one could search for all the forms of "legw" by
"leg* | eleg*", or for all Present Active Indicative forms by "PAI",
in order to link a word directly with its own particular parsing, a
fully inclusive PHRASE SEARCH must be requested which indicates the
preliminary part-of-speech identifier (V-, N-, or A-) when
appropriate. E.g., to search for > all the Present Active Indicative
forms of "legw" one would have to request a phrase search for search
for "leg* V-PAI".

Note that the Strong's numbers may also be judiciously utilized when
making search requests to reduce the amount of time and space needed
to otherwise frame such a request. E.g., one equally could do a phrase
search for all Present Indicative Active forms of "legw" by "3004
V-PAI"

To search for phrases based solely on grammatical analysis (e.g., for
all prepositional phrases followed by an articular neuter genitive
noun), one must use the wildcard (*) symbol before each requested
parsing in a phrase search request (e.g., "* PREP * T-GSN * N-GSN").

Special note: the so called "Second" forms of the Aorist, Future,
Perfect and Pluperfect are respectively designated as 2A, 2F, 2P and
2L preceding the voice and mood designations. Functionally, however,
these forms are equivalent to the otherwise undesignated (First)
Aorist, Future, Perfect, and Pluperfect forms.

Search requests which expect to take in BOTH the first and second
forms of either the Aorist, Future, Perfect or Pluperfect tenses MUST
be prefixed with an asterisk (*). Failure to use the wildcard prefix
will result in the second tense forms NOT being found.

Example: to search for all Perfect Active Indicative forms (i.e., both
RAI and 2RAI), the wildcard form *RAI should be used. Similarly, to
search for all Aorist Active Subjunctive forms, (i.e., AAS and 2AAS),
the wildcard form *AAS should be used.

STRONG'S NUMBERS:

For access to the lexical definitions of the root form of each Greek
word, the appropriate Strong's concordance number has been added
immediately following each Greek word. The definition of that word can
then be ascertained by following the normal Online Bible F4 key or
definition function as found in English-language based texts.

The user should be cautioned, however, that the Strong's numbers
utilized for the Greek New Testament are NOT always identical with
those used in coding the English version text. The reason for this
discrepancy is simple: James Strong was attempting to help out the lay
reader of the Authorized Version in assigning numbers to each unique
word root form. For some reason, he then decided that the user might
be additionally aided if certain words (e.g., the verb "to be", or
comparative and superlative forms of adjectives and adverbs) were
further subdivided into uniquely-numbered forms; or, conversely, if
frequent expressions comprising more than one word (e.g. "ou mh") were
subsumed under a single number, rather than giving the usual separate
numbers to such forms.

Thus, the Strong's apparatus -- well-suited as it may be for use of
the concordance he produced, as well as to aid the English reader who
does not know Greek -- is quite confusing and detrimental to the
student who might seek to use the same numbers for understanding the
root forms of the Greek New Testament.

In order to eliminate the various problems which would otherwise arise
from an incautious use of Strong's numbers as originally provided for
the English Bible, the present Greek edition of the Online Bible has
reduced the Strong's numbers considerably so as to guide the user
directly to the root form of most Greek words, without adding in the
extra step of having further to enquire via the lexicon as to the
component or root forms of such words.

This revision of the Strong's numbers for the Greek text of the New
Testament is not yet complete. Future editions of the Online > Bible
Greek text will eventually bring all Strong's numbers into conformity
with the principle of providing only the base root form > for all
Greek New Testament words. The user's patience is requested during
this period of development.

ADDITIONAL NOTE REGARDING THE VARIOUS FORMS OF THE VERB "TO BE"

Strong's Concordance at times gives separate numbers to various forms
of the verb "to be". All of these properly derive from "eimi" (1510)
alone. Perschbacher gives both numbers: the separate Strong's number
in the left margin and the root number in the right margin. For the
present time the Online Bible has retained Strong's number in these
cases, even though Strong's own lexicon entry indicates the proper
derivation from the root form 1510.

Since accents and breathings are not provided within the Online Bible
Greek text, some forms will appear identical even though they possess
different parsings or declensions. Within the forms of the verb "to
be" the following cases specifically should be noted:

    The verb form "h" (3s-pxs of 1510, numbered 2229 by Strong) occurs
    infrequently, while the definite article, relative pronoun, and
    disjunctive particle forms of "h" dominate within the Greek NT.

    The verb form "ei" (2s-pxi of 1510) also occurs (in the absence of
    > accents and breathings) as a conditional particle, in fact, most
    frequently so.

    The verb form "hn" (3s-ixi of 1510) occurs also as a relative
    pronoun. However, the verb form is dominant within the Greek NT.

    The verb form "wsin" is not from 5607 (participle), but is a
    subjunctive of (1510). Note also that "wsin" may be a plural noun
    form of 3775.

    Of particular note: the verb form "hv" stems from 1510 if it is a
    > present subjunctive, but from 2229 if it is an imperfect
    indicative.

SAMPLE OF CURRENT CODING AS APPLIED:

Perschbacher:

agayopoihsai (15) aor. act. inf.
agayopoihte (15) 2 pers. pl. pres. act. subj.
agayopoiountav (17) acc. pl. m. pres. act. part.

Online Bible:

AAN <15>
2P-PAS <15>
APM-PAP <17>

